---
path: '/blog/2019-09-19'
date: '2019-09-19'
title: 'How to Deploy bitwarden_rs via AWS Fargate'
tags: ['AWS', 'Rust']
---

For the past month or so, I have been learning Rust in my spare time. Since it is a significant departure from what I know best (JavaScript), I am not very productive with it yet. But, the features of the langauge are very cool (I _wish_ JS had pattern matching!!) and it has a really supportive and vast community. The Rust compiler is stern, but fair. It my limited experience, if my code compiles, it usually works the way I intended.

Anyway, I ran across a project called [Bitwarden](https://bitwarden.com/), which is an open source password manager. There are a few third-party projects written in other languages that follow the project's API. Namely, there is one impressive project [bitwarden_rs](https://github.com/dani-garcia/bitwarden_rs) that re-implements the `Bitwarden` project in Rust. It features a smaller memory and resource footprint than the original application, which makes it perfect to host on free tier VMs on any of the major cloud providers. Even better, it ships as a public container on Docker Hub, so setting up the application is a breeze.

Since I am most familiar with AWS, I chose to deploy it via Fargate. The Fargate service is _not_ within the typical free tier plan that AWS provides, but as mentioned above, `bitwarden_rs` does not require a lot of resources. So, a small instance with no auto-scaling or other features should only run less than \$10 a month.
